In the previous video,
I mentioned that broadcasting
is another technique that you can use
to make your Python code run faster.
In this video, let's delve into how
broadcasting in Python actually works.
Let's suppose today
broadcasting with an example.
In this matrix, I've shown the number
of calories from carbohydrates,
proteins, and
fats in 100 grams of four different foods.
So for example,
a 100 grams of apples turns out,
has 56 calories from carbs, and
much less from proteins and fats.
Whereas, in contrast, a 100 grams of
beef has 104 calories from protein and
135 calories from fat.
Now, let's say your goal is to
calculate the percentage of calories
from carbs, proteins and
fats for each of the four foods.
So, for example,
if you look at this column and
add up the numbers in that column
you get that 100 grams of apple
has 56 plus 1.2 plus 1.8 so
that's 59 calories.
And so as a percentage the percentage of
calories from carbohydrates
in an apple would
be 56 over 59, that's about 94.9%.
So most of the calories in an apple
come from carbs, whereas in contrast,
most of the calories of beef come
from protein and fat and so on.
So the calculation you want is really
to sum up each of the four columns
of this matrix to get the total number
of calories in 100 grams of apples,
beef, eggs, and potatoes.
And then to divide throughout the matrix,
so as to get the percentage of
calories from carbs, proteins and
fats for each of the four foods.
So the question is, can you do
this without an explicit for-loop?
Let's take a look at
how you could do that.
What I'm going to do is
show you how you can set,
say this matrix equal to
three by four matrix A.
And then with one line of Python code
we're going to sum down the columns.
So we're going to get four numbers
corresponding to the total number
of calories in these four
different types of foods,
100 grams of these four
different types of foods.
And I'm going to use a second line
of Python code to divide each of
the four columns by
their corresponding sum.
If that verbal description
wasn't very clearly,
hopefully it will be clearer in a second
when we look in the Python code.
So here we are in the Jupiter notebook.
I've already written this first
piece of code to prepopulate
the matrix A with the numbers we had
just now, so we'll hit shift enter and
just run that, so there's the matrix A.
And now here are the two
lines of Python code.
First, we're going to compute
tau equals a, that sum.
And x is equals 0 means to sum vertically.
We'll say more about that in a little bit.
And then print cal.
So we'll sum vertically.
Now 59 is the total number of
calories in the apple, 239 was
the total number of calories in the beef
and the eggs and potato and so on.
And then with a compute percentage
equals A/cal.reshape 1,4.
Actually we want percentages,
so multiply by 100 here.
And then let's print percentage.
Let's run that.
And so
that command we've taken the matrix A and
divided it by this one by four matrix.
And this gives us
the matrix of percentages.
So as we worked out kind of by
hand just now in the apple there
was a first column 94.9% of
the calories are from carbs.
Let's go back to the slides.
So just to repeat the two
lines of code we had,
this is what have written
out in the Jupiter notebook.
To add a bit of detail this parameter,
(axis = 0), means that you
want Python to sum vertically.
So if this is axis 0 this
means to sum vertically,
where as the horizontal axis is axis 1.
So be able to write axis 1 or sum
horizontally instead of sum vertically.
And then this command here,
this is an example of Python
broadcasting where you take a matrix A.
So this is a three by four matrix and
you divide it by a one by four matrix.
And technically, after this first
line of codes cal, the variable cal,
is already a one by four matrix.
So technically you don't need
to call reshape here again, so
that's actually a little bit redundant.
But when I'm writing Python codes if
I'm not entirely sure what matrix,
whether the dimensions of a matrix I often
would just call a reshape command just to
make sure that it's the right
column vector or the row vector or
whatever you want it to be.
The reshape command is a constant time.
It's a order one operation
that's very cheap to call.
So don't be shy about using the reshape
command to make sure that your matrices
are the size you need it to be.
Now, let's explain in greater detail how
this type of operation works, right?
We had a three by four matrix and
we divided it by a one by four matrix.
So, how can you divide a three by
four matrix by a one by four matrix?
Or by one by four vector?
Let's go through a few more
examples of broadcasting.
If you take a 4 by 1 vector and
add it to a number, what
Python will do is take this number and
auto-expand
it into a four by one vector as well,
as follows.
And so the vector [1, 2, 3,
4] plus the number 100 ends up
with that vector on the right.
You're adding a 100 to every element,
and in fact we use this form of
broadcasting where that constant was
the parameter b in an earlier video.
And this type of broadcasting works with
both column vectors and row vectors,
and in fact we use a similar form of
broadcasting earlier with the constant
we're adding to a vector being
the parameter b in logistic regression.
Here's another example.
Let's say you have a two
by three matrix and
you add it to this one by n matrix.
So the general case would be if you
have some (m,n) matrix here and
you add it to a (1,n) matrix.
What Python will do is copy the matrix m,
times to turn this into m by n matrix,
so instead of this one by
three matrix it'll copy it twice in
this example to turn it into this.
Also, two by three matrix and
we'll add these so
you'll end up with the sum on the right,
okay?
So you taken,
you added 100 to the first column,
added 200 to second column,
added 300 to the third column.
And this is basically what we
did on the previous slide,
except that we use a division operation
instead of an addition operation.
So one last example,
whether you have a (m,n) matrix and
you add this to a (m,1) vector,
(m,1) matrix.
Then just copy this n times horizontally.
So you end up with an (m,n) matrix.
So as you can imagine you copy
it horizontally three times.
And you add those.
So when you add them you end up with this.
So we've added 100 to the first row and
added 200 to the second row.
Here's the more general principle
of broadcasting in Python.
If you have an (m,n) matrix and you add or
subtract or multiply or
divide with a (1,n) matrix,
then this will copy it n
times into an (m,n) matrix.
And then apply the addition,
subtraction, and
multiplication of division element wise.
If conversely, you were to take the (m,n)
matrix and add, subtract, multiply,
divide by an (m,1) matrix,
then also this would copy it now n times.
And turn that into an (m,n) matrix and
then apply the operation element wise.
Just one of the broadcasting,
which is if you have an (m,1) matrix,
so that's really a column vector
like [1,2,3], and you add,
subtract, multiply or
divide by a row number.
So maybe a (1,1) matrix.
So such as that plus 100,
then you end up copying
this real number n times until you'll
also get another (n,1) matrix.
And then you perform the operation such
as addition on this example element-wise.
And something similar also works for
row vectors.
The fully general version of broadcasting
can do even a little bit more than this.
If you're interested you can
read the documentation for
NumPy, and look at broadcasting
in that documentation.
That gives an even slightly more
general definition of broadcasting.
But the ones on the slide are the main
forms of broadcasting that you end up
needing to use when you
implement a neural network.
Before we wrap up,
just one last comment, which is for
those of you that are used to
programming in either MATLAB or
Octave, if you've ever used the MATLAB or
Octave function bsxfun
in neural network programming bsxfun does
something similar, not quite the same.
But it is often used for similar purpose
as what we use broadcasting in Python for.
But this is really only for
very advanced MATLAB and
Octave users, if you've not heard of this,
don't worry about it.
You don't need to know it when you're
coding up neural networks in Python.
So, that was broadcasting in Python.
I hope that when you do the programming
homework that broadcasting will allow you
to not only make a code run faster,
but also help you get what you want
done with fewer lines of code.
Before you dive into the programming
excercise, I want to share with you just
one more set of ideas,
which is that there's some tips and
tricks that I've found reduces
the number of bugs in my Python code and
that I hope will help you too.
So with that,
let's talk about that in the next video.